Now I say Lombard is in focus on the
back of the Q3 numbers. The net earned
premium is up 12% but the profit decline
9% on a year-on-year basis. To discuss
the quarterly numbers the outlook we
have with us Gopal Balchandran CFO of
the company. Thank you very much uh for
joining in. Um you know I mean the
headline is that there is a rise of 12
13% in your premiums but your net profit
has declined. Can we talk about retail
because retail has been the standout
performer very strong growth but the
losses have also widened u so what
explains that and what is the on retail
what is the outlook going ahead
>> good morning to you and uh to all your
viewers in CNBC seasons greetings first
uh in terms of a good day to have this
call uh but having said that let me kind
of come back and put this in context uh
I think even in the past I think what we
have always maintained is to say that
ISIS umbad has always kind state
discipline in terms of driving
profitable growth and hence to that
extent is something that has got
exhibited even for this particular
quarter and to your specific point on
some of the retail lines that cuts
across motor and health you're
absolutely right I think what we are
quite enthused is with some of the
reforms that got played out towards the
end of the last quarter that has clearly
kind of uh increased consumer demand on
ground whether you talk motor or whether
you talk uh health on both of these
lines from an IC lumbar standoint point.
Let me take the health piece first.
Retail health, our market share for
quarter 3, I think we are currently at
about 4 and a half%. This number used to
kind of largely hover around 3% levels
in the previous years. Uh even on motor,
I think in the first half, I think we
did do we didn't do as well. But if you
were to see quarter three, I think we
have been able to substantially narrow
down the gap visly industry growth
numbers. And in line with what I had
talked about even last quarter for the
month of December we have had an
outperformance with the market of almost
about close to 400 basis points. Uh so
hence very very excited and we continue
to maintain market leadership in motor
as a line of business. To your point on
profits on an absolute basis this is
exactly what gets reflected whenever you
start seeing very strong growth momentum
coming back in line with the accounting
prescriptions. The growth earnings gets
played out over the next 12 months or
thereabout. But the cost of acquisition
that you incur for sourcing the business
is something that gets expensed up front
and that's the reason why more than the
absolute amount of uh profit uh as what
is to look at it will be better to look
at more a sustained return on equity
which we have spoken about for ICA to
deliver between 18 to 20%.
>> Yeah. And that'll be good that'll be
great. Mr.
Good morning. Good to see you on the
program again, Prashant here.
>> But sir, you know, you mentioned market
leadership and uh rising uh I mean you
know strong growth but is there got got
to be a balance between rising costs,
losses etc. I mean is it coming at the
expense of prof profitability across I
mean if you see underwriting losses
actually a loss in the motor segment
retail uh and and these are important
the most important segments for you
right so is this leadership coming at uh
at a at a very significant cost in that
sense and how long can you sustain it
>> thank thanks pashant for kind of uh
asking that and let me again then put
this in context uh which is what I was
kind of referring to so one is whenever
you see high periods of growth which is
what we are quite excited with from an
ISIS lumbumber standpoint as I said the
cost is expensed up front so for example
in quarter three when I when I is lumbar
has done very good growth cutting across
whether it's motor or health my premiums
gets earned over the next 12 months
whereas my cost of acquisition that I
incurred gets expensed out in this
particular quarter in its entirety that
doesn't get deferred over the next 12
month period so therefore So on an
absolute basis you will always see an
outcome to that extent reflecting in
terms of absolute underwriting losses
showing an increase. Uh but having said
that I think what we are equally mindful
of is from an ISIS standpoint that is
something that you would have seen
across quarters we we have always made
sure that we kind of operate within the
overall limit on expense of management
that the regulator has laid down. And in
the context of where we are on the
profitability, let me again uh bring to
light the industry numbers is something
that we have for the half year in motor.
Industry combined ratios for motor as we
speak currently stands at 128%. In the
first half of the current year's
combined viz with that for the first
half year was about 106.9%. So clearly
we have had a huge delta v with the
market in terms of what we're
underwriting at and hence to that extent
is where we stand in terms of uh our
thought process of continuing to do
prudent risk selection and in the
process the point that I made uh sustain
an ROE in the range of 18 to 20%.
>> [clears throat]
>> All right. Hi sir, morning and good to
see you win. Since you mentioned about
combined ratio, tell us what's the
trajectory from year on. What do you end
this year with FI27? What should we be
looking at this number?
>> So Nigel, we have spoken about even in
the past. I think the endeavor will be
always to try and as I said continue
delivering better on combined but again
this has to be looked in the context of
let's say how the industry is kind of
positioned at. While I put out the
numbers to to the earlier point that
Prashant had asked, even the overall
combined ratios for the industry as a
whole for the half year if you were to
see has kind of moved significantly
north from 113% to almost 119%. But from
an ISO lumbard standpoint, we continue
to have that difference of more than 10%
in the combined ratios that we have been
kind of reflecting. So hence to that
extent we will obviously continue to see
how we can kind of do an improvement in
our overall combined ratios. But more
importantly the earlier uh point that I
made to sustain that RO of 18 to 20 that
one would kind of look forward whether
it's quarter 4 or even for the matter of
fact as we head into the next year as
well.
>> You've guided for a combined ratio of
102. Isn't that the medium-term goal? Do
you get there in FI26 or does that get
pushed forward to FI27 now 102%.
>> Great question. So again put let me put
this in context. I think as an industry
we have been going through various uh
regulatory changes. We did have a change
in the way the accounting prescription
would happen for long-term policies. So
hence to that extent that's the reason
why if you even if you have looked at
our uh investor script or for the matter
of fact investor presentation we have
called out numbers on both basis which
is the changed basis of 1 by n and also
on an n basis. So if you were to stay
stay focused on an end basis because
that is more reflective of the economic
uh outcome of the book that one has
underritten even for this quarter 3 if
you would have seen our combined ratios
have actually improved it was 102.3% in
quarter 3 of last year on an end basis
the combined ratio for ISIS Lombard in
quarter 3 of this year has been 102.2%.
And mind you this is uh this is uh also
a quarter where we also kind of took the
full impact of the past service cost
resulting from again a very good reform
in the context of labor code guidelines
that got into existence. We had an
impact of about 55 crores in the
quarter. But to answer your point I
think directionally is the is what I
kind of referred to we would want to
kind of see how we can continue to see
our improvement in combined but at the
same time try and continue to deliver a
sustained area of 18 to 20%.
Mr. Balisendran [clears throat]
uh you know let me just go out of the
third quarter syllabus for a bit if
you'll indulge me. We've been reporting
extensively on uh over the last one one
and a half months about the fact that um
you know the government is very keen on
in insurance penetration. One of the
things they feel is that insurance
commissions paid out by insurers is too
high. We put out a story yesterday that
II is going to come out with a
consultation paper on regulating
commissions next month uh this coming
month and what they're going to say is
they're going to uh you know it's going
to it's going to contain proposals to
cap commissions lower commissions and
lower the overall EOM as well uh the the
overall limit as well.
So I just wanted to understand because
you mentioned that thing right I mean
premium is collected over a period costs
are expensed immediately.
uh there was there was this one proposal
where insurers insurance companies had
sent to IIDI or at least at least that
was discussed that deferring commission
payouts instead of upfront do do it over
a period of time and based on
uh you know I mean if the policy has to
be continued for those payouts to happen
so it becomes dependent on that are
these big changes will this make a lot
of difference to insurance companies I
mean how significant will some of these
things be I mean I No, this is what we
reported. So I'm just asking you to
respond to what we've reported. So just
your view to that.
>> So again pashad that I think I'll just
put this in context. I think uh one has
to look at this in in line with let's
say what the II had done about couple of
years back. I think rightfully so what
they did was to kind of start getting
every company to operate within a
defined overall limit on expense of
management which is what I referred to
as a as a company which is into multiple
line of businesses. they have to run
their overall costs at less than 30%.
And ISIS Lumbard as a company I think we
go back to any number of uh periods I
think we have always kind of made sure
that we operated within the threshold. I
think the key thing in line with let's
say the thought process of where the
regulators/various authorities are
getting into is to make sure that the
overall cost of insurance becomes
affordable for the general
>> understand that my question is my
question is pointed if emissions are
lower and EOM itself is brought lower
will that make a is that is that very
meaningful as a change and we understand
they the aim is to implement these by on
the first from the 1 of April
>> so which is the point I was referring to
Brashant I think directionally Finally
these limits of expensive management is
very very positive and the key will be
to make sure that as a sector we
continue to kind of operate at levels
which are lower on an aggregate basis
and that hence to that extent I think we
will be very very of course we will we
will kind of welcome any final report
that gets kind of put out but any uh any
guidelines which kind of says that
insurance sector as a whole has to run
within an overall expense of management
liid within a threshold we will
definitely welcome of that change.
>> Okay, you're not tell you're not getting
out much but I'm sure you're uh noting
our reportage and maybe uh it is a big
discussion point in the industry as we
understand it. Thank you very much for
joining us. We'll see what happens and
we'll request you to come back once we
have that consultation paper then maybe
we can uh you know talk some specifics
etc.
>> More specifics around that. Absolutely.
>> Thank you. Thank you Mr. syndrome.